urlencoded extractor (#255)
LukeMathWalker/pavex: docs/guide/request_data/body/deserializers/urlencoded.md

# UrlEncoded

> [`UrlEncodedBody<T>`][UrlEncodedBody] buffers the body in memory and deserializes it as JSON,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`UrlEncodedBody<T>`][UrlEncodedBody] buffers the body in memory and deserializes it as URL-encoded,
```

Inject [`UrlEncodedBody<T>`][UrlEncodedBody] as an input in your components to access the parsed body:

--8<-- "doc_examples/guide/request_data/urlencoded/project-extraction.snap"

## Deserialization

The newly defined struct must be **deserializable**—i.e. it must implement
the [`serde::Deserialize`][serde::Deserialize] trait.  
You can derive [`serde::Deserialize`][serde::Deserialize] in most cases.

--8<-- "doc_examples/guide/request_data/urlencoded/project-struct_with_attr.snap"

## Avoiding allocations

If you want to minimize memory usage, you can try to avoid unnecessary heap memory allocations when deserializing
string-like fields from the body of the incoming request.
Pavex supports this use case—**you can borrow from the request body**.

### Percent-encoding

It is not always possible to avoid allocations when handling an urlencoded body.  
A urlencoded body must comply with the restriction of the URI specification:
you can only use [a limited set of characters](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#section-2).  
If you want to use a character not allowed in a URI, you
must [percent-encode it](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Percent-encoding).  

> For example, if you want to use a space in a query parameter, you must encode it as `%20`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to use a space in a field name or a field value, you must encode it as `%20`.
```
